# Personal Project - SQL Sales Data Exploration

### The Prompt
As a business analyst for a fictional online retail company, use the customers, products, and sales data to find the following information for company stakeholders using SQL query techniques. 
  1. Assume today is November 10th, 2023. Find the sales made in the last 30 days including customer name, product name, and total amount of the sale.
  2. Assume today is January 25, 2024. Find the total revenue generated by each product category in the last year from least to greatest.
  3. Find all customers who made purchases in 2023 and are located in the West region.
  4. Display the total number of transactions, total product quantity sold, and total revenue for each customer, in decreasing order by total revenue.
  5. Find the top 3 customers by total revenue in the year 2023 so they can receive Most Valuable Customer bonus products.
  6. Rank products by their total sales quantity in 2023 to identify the most popular items sold that year.
  7. Assume today is August 15, 2023. Categorize customers into "New" (if they signed up in the last 6 months) or "Existing" based on their sign up date. Order by the region the customer is located in. Where are most new customers located?
  8. Assume today is May 1, 2024. Find the total transactions for each month in the last 12 months.
  9. Assume today is January 1, 2024. Identify the product categories that generated more than $1000 in revenue during the last 6 months.
  10. Check for any sales where the total amount in the sales data doesn't match the expected value of the sale using quantity x price.

### The Data
For this project, I created my own dataset. I started with 26 fake products and randomly generated price values between $5 and $35 dollars, and assigning them to one of the 4 product categories. I then generated a list of 50 customers, evenly distributed between the 4 sales regions (West, East, North, South) and evenly assigned sign up dates on the 1, 5, 15, 25 or 29 of the months in 2023.

To create the sales dataset, I randomly selected from the 50 customers and 26 products to make the 180 purchases. For each purchase, I then randomly assigned a quantity between 1 and 5, and calculated the total amount of the sale using the prices in the products dataset. However, I altered 2 of the total amounts to be incorrect to allow me to later query for the errors using SQL. Finally, I assigned each sale a sale date by adding 3 days to the customer's sign up date so that all the sale dates would be after the customer had joined the site.  

The datasets are as follows-
  - "sales": A spreadsheet containing 180 sales made by the company identified by an id number.
    - id: the id for the sale
    - customer_id: the customer who made the purchase
    - product_id: what product was purchased
    - sale_date: the date of the sale
    - quantity: how many of the product was purchased
    - total_amount: the total amount of the sale in dollars
    
  - "customers": A spreadsheet containing information on 50 customers
    - customer_id: the customer's unique identifier
    - customer_name: the customer's first and last name
    - region: the sale region the customer is located in
    - sign_up_date: the date when the customer signed up on the site
    
  - "products": A spreadsheet containing information on the 26 products sold by the company
    - product_id: the unique id number of each product
    - product_name: The name of the product (I used the 26 letters of the alphabet to keep the data simple)
    - category: the category the product falls under, either Clothing, Food, Tech, or Toy
    - price: The price of the individual product

View the dataset on Google Sheets https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1yYP6ezcvZZwxVBvx_4axRNLDmKxd4JrIfo7IuKs3lak/edit?usp=sharing 

### The Process

### Results

### Project Link 
https://www.datacamp.com/datalab/w/5c043c91-fde6-444e-b04f-010444555cc2/edit
